---
title:
author: IanMoone82 (https://forum.obsidian.md/u/IanMoone82)
Publication Date: Thu Jul 08 2021
Last modification Date: Thu Jul 08 2021
---


          <p>I created a <code>see also</code> query. returns any linked mentions to your file that is not in the file. Great for easily exploring connections between your files. I was inspired by Wikipedia&#x2019;s <code>see also</code> section at the bottom of their pages.</p>
<p><strong>For this to work your first header needs to be the file name</strong></p>
<pre><code class="lang-auto">```dataview
list 
from [[#this.file.name]] and
!outgoing([[# this.file.name]])
```
</code></pre>
<p>I also created a basic note template using the templater plugin that I would also like to share. To get the most out of this template, I recommend turning on <code>Trigger Templater on new file creation</code> on. I also set <code>Create note in new pane</code> hotkey to <code>ctrl + n</code>. I use <code>ctrl + shift + n</code> for the Note Refactor hotkey <code>Extract selection to new note - first line as file name</code>. Using this I can easily create notes on the fly.</p>
<pre><code class="lang-auto">---
tags: basic, new
aliases:
date created: &lt;% tp.date.now() %&gt;
---
%%
I add file links after topics, themes, and related

Why I use topics, themes, and related:
1. It gives me the flexibility of adding context and not having to include it directly in the note&apos;s content 
2. I create quite a bit of short, quick notes and so the ability to quickly add connections comes in handy a lot
3. I can come back to the note and add more connections very easily later on.
4. The added connections improves the graph view&apos;s ability to navigate, explore, and discover connections between your notes. 
%%
topics: 
themes: 
related: 

---
%%
templater plugin code to return the note&apos;s title when the template is inserted into the note
%%
### [[&lt;% tp.file.title %&gt;]]
- 

---
see also:
%%
returns list of linked mentions that are not present in the current note
%%
```dataview
list 
from [[#this.file.name]] and
!outgoing([[#this.file.name]])
```
</code></pre>
<p>(important tip - if you want to include the full dataview query syntax inside a code block like I did use 4 backticks to open and close the code block instead of 3.)</p>
<p>I plan on making more content in the future. If you want to support me you can <a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/IanMoone" rel="noopener nofollow ugc">buy me a coffee</a>.</p>
        